feat: Document V3 security changes (#1069)
edgexfoundry/edgex-docs: docs_src/security/V3Migration.md

# V3 Security Migration Guide

## What's Changed in EdgeX 3.0 Security

EdgeX 3.0 ("Minnesota") release implements a significant change to its security architecture.

In EdgeX "Fuji" release, EdgeX introduced an opt-in secure mode that featured

> a secret store capability based on Hashicorp Vault and a API gateway based on Kong.

Author: Fixed.

The API gateway served to separate the outside Internet-facing network, which was "untrusted",
from the internally-facing network, which was a "trusted".

EdgeX 3.0 takes significant steps to put limits on that trust.
Whereas in EdgeX 1.0 and 2.0, microservice security was enforced at the API gateway,
in EdgeX 3.0 microservice security is now also enforced at the individual microservice level.
EdgeX 2.0 already enabled authentication for third-party components such as the EdgeX database,

> the EdgeX registry, the EdgeX configuration store, the EdgeX secret store, the EdgeX API gateway,

Author: Fixed.

of the EdgeX documentation.
Due to these changes, the `secrets-config proxy jwt` helper command has been removed.
This same chapter also explains that, similar to Kong,
Vault has an extensible authentication mechanism,
although only username/password (with a randomized strong password)
is enabled out of the box.

As was before, all requests (with the exception of a passthrough for Vault authentication)
are checked at the API gateway prior to forwarding to the backend service for fulfillment.

## Microservice-level Breaking Authentication Changes

EdgeX microservices in EdgeX 3.0 will now require authentication on a per-route basis,
even for requests that originate behind the API gateway.
Peer-to-peer service requests (such as a device service calling core-metadata,
or core-command forwarding a request to a device service) are authenticated automatically.
This new behavior may create compatibility issues for custom components
that worked fine in EdgeX 2.0 that may suddenly experience authentication failures in EdgeX 3.0.
This new behavior may also create issues for 3rd party components,
such as the eKuiper rules engine,

> because of its ability to issue ad-hoc HTTP requests in response to certain events.

Reviewer: Add link to eKuiper section in main V3 migration guide here: https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/3.0/V3TopLevelMigration/#secure-mode

Author: Fixed.

To revert to legacy EdgeX 2.0 behavior--no authentication at the microservice level--
set the environment variable `EDGEX_DISABLE_JWT_VALIDATION` to `true`.
JWT validation must be disabled on a per-microservice basis.
This will not stop EdgeX microservices from sending JWT's
to peer EdgeX microservices--it will only disable validation on the receiving side,
allowing unauthenticated requests.

For sending JWTs, custom EdgeX services have two basic choices.
The first is to use one of the pre-built service clients in `go-mod-core-contracts`.
The other is to to use the `GetSelfJWT()` method of the `SecretProviderExt` interface.
The
[authenticating chapter](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/3.0/security/Ch-Authenticating/)
of the EdgeX documentation
explains in greater detail how to use these two methods.

## Breaking Changes to API Gateway TLS Configuration

Some minor changes have been made to the `secrets-config proxy tls` command.

> For starters, the `--snis` argument is no longer supported--the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For starters, the `--snis` argument is no longer supported. The
```

Reviewer: Would be easier to read as a bulleted list.

Author: Fixed.

supplied TLS certificate and key will be used for all TLS connections.

> Other minor changes include renaming `--incert` to `--inCert`
> and `--inkey` to `--inKey`, for example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other minor changes include renaming `--incert` to `--inCert`
and `--inkey` to `--inKey`, for the consistency of flag's names.
```

Author: Fixed.
